Throughout this course, we've largely made use of JSON as our schema format.
While JSON helps us get part of the way there in terms of defining a schema,
it has significant drawbacks.
First, JSON doesn't help us determine what the type of a field is,
or whether or not we should always expect a key to be present.
I'm sure many of you watching this lesson,
can relate to handling malformed JSON data.
This is where Apache Avro comes in.
Apache Avro is a data serialization system that uses a binary data format.
Meaning, when data in your application is shared in the Avro format,
it is compressed into a binary format over the network.
This binary format improves speed over the network,
and can help reduce storage overhead.
Binary format of Avro includes
not just your application data in the schema format you define,
but it also includes the schema definition itself.
When clients receive data from the application in Avro format,
and not only do they receive the actual data,
but they also get the Avro instructions or the schema for how to
deserialize the data from binary into their own application model representation.
This is one of the key features that differentiates Apache Avro
from other schema tools like gRPC and protocol buffers.